So the plan for this video is to develop
a greedy algorithm that always minimizes
the waited sum of completion times of a
given set of in jobs.
But more than the specific problem, more
than the specific algorithm I want you to
focus on the process by which we arrive.
At this greedy algorithm.
because I think this process is really
something which you can use yourself, in
your own applications.
The process we're going to use is we're
going to first look at just a special
case in the problem, where it's
reasonably intuitive what should be the
optimal thing to do.
Looking at these special cases will then
motivate a couple of natural greedy
algorithms.
Then, we'll figure out how to narrow a
couple of greedy algorithms down to just
a single candidate, and that in fact, as
we will prove in the following lectures,
will always be correct.
So let's just briefly recall what is it
we're trying to do.
The computational problem and instant to
specify by end jobs which come along with
waits and links, and among all end
factorial ways that we can sequence the
jobs, we want to somehow home in on the
one that minimizes the sum of waited
completion times.
Recall from the previous video that the
completion time of a job is just the
amount of time that elapses before it's
done.
So that's going to be the length of all
the previous jobs plus the length of job
J itself.
What we're hoping is going to work out is
that we can devise a greedy algorithm
that always solves this problem.
So maybe I should take a step back and
ask, you know why do greedy algorithms
seem like a sensible way to approach this
scheduling problem?
Well, you know.
In general, greedy algorithms are not
guaranteed to work.
You may have to do something more
complicated.
But scheduling still seems like a good
place to try them out.
Remember what a greedy algorithm does, it
iteratively makes myopic decisions.
An then you hope you have a, a reasonably
good result at the end.
Now, what are we doing?
We're studying a sequencing problem.
The definition of the problem is to
schedule a job then another job then
another job all the way up to the last
job and so this iterative nature of the
solution suggests that at least if you're
lucky if the problem is simple enough
maybe there's a greedy algorithm which
simply schedules the jobs in the correct
order one at a time.
So, we're going to see if that works for
minimizing the sum of waited completion
times.
So let's start by thinking positive,
being optimistic.
So let's pause it that the greedy
algorithm does exist for this problem.
Given that we're in the greedy algortihm
section of the course you're, probably
you'll going to find this hard to
believe.
But suppose one existed, how would we
discover what it is?
Well a useful technique not just for this
problem but, you know more generally in
real life, first focus on some special
cases of the problem, where it's
relatively clear how you should proceed.
And the two special cases I want you to
think about for this problem are first of
all, suppose I told you all of the jobs
had exactly the same length but they had
different weights, then, what order do
you think it makes sense to schedule the
jobs in?
Secondly, suppose that I told you, that
all of the jobs had exactly the same
weight, but they had different lengths.
Then, what order do you think you should
schedule the jobs in?
So first if all the jobs have the same
length, you should prefer jobs with
larger weights.
Certainely, eh, this intuitively jives
with our semantics of weights, that says
more importance, which suggest that
higher weight jobs should go first, if
you look at the actual formula of
minimizing the sum of weight and
completion times, if the jobs all have
the same length.
Then the completion times are going to be
the same your going to see the same set
of them.
If all the jobs have length one, then the
completion times of the jobs are going to
be one, two, three, four all the way up
to N.
No matter what sequence you use.
So to make this as small as possible, you
want the highest waits to be associated
with the smallest completion times that
is, you want them upfront as early as
possible.
The second special case where jobs have
equal waits but varying lengths, I think
is a little more subtle.
Here what you want to do is you always
want to favor small jobs, jobs with the
smallest lengths, everything else being
equal.
The reason for that is that scheduling a
job at a given position forces all the
other jobs to wait for that job to
complete.
So all the, so whatever job you schedule
first has a negative impact on all of the
rest of the N minus one jobs.
So I'll.
Things being equal, you want the smallest
job there that minimizes the consequences
for the jobs that are to follow.
If you find this a little unintuitive, I
suggest just looking at a very simple
example.
Two jobs.
Both have weight one, one has length one,
one has length two.
If you schedule the small job first
you'll have completion times of one and
three for a total of four but if you
schedule the bigger job first you get
completion times of two and three for the
bigger sum of completion times of five.
So the next step is to move beyond
special cases, which we understand well.
To the general case, which perhaps we
don't understand.
So suppose all of the weights are
different, and all of the lengths are
different.
Well, if we have two jobs, and both of
these rules of thumb give us the same
advice, we're good.
If there's one job which is both higher
weight, and smaller than another job,
then clearly that job should go first.
But what if our two rules of thumb to
prefer high weight jobs and to prefer
small jobs, give us conflicting advice.
What if we have a pair of jobs, where one
of them is on the one hand higher weight,
higher priority but on the other hand,
bigger than the other one.
Which one should go first?
Well let's again stay positive, and let's
try to think about the simplest kind of
algorithm that could conceivably work.
It won't be a guarantee that it works,
but it might work.
So we have these two different
parameters, length and weights.
Maybe we can aggregate these two
parameters into a single one, into a
single sort of score for each of the jobs
so that if we schedule the jobs from high
score to low score, we'll always be
optimal.
That would be great.
If we could compile these two numbers
into one for each job, and then just sort
and be done.
There is of course the question of
exactly how do we choose this aggregation
function.
How do we compile length and weight into
a single number.
Well as guidelines we should recall our
special case and make sure we respect our
two rules of thumb.
So all else being equal we should prefer
jobs with higher weight.
So that says higher weight should meet
the higher scores if we're going to
schedule the job from high score to low
score.
And then also if a length is bigger that
should decrease the score.
We should prefer jobs that have a small
length.
So this idea leaves open the question of
exactly how do we aggregate the length
and the weight of a job into a single
number.
So what I want you to do now is I want
you to think for a minute about what kind
of simplest possible functions you could
use.
So again, these are mathematical
functions.
They take as input two numbers, a length
and a weight of a job, and they output a
single number, a score.
And the function should have the
properties that it's increasing in the
job's weight, and it's decreasing in the
job's length.
So there's more than one answer to this
question but just sort of dream some sort
of ideas of what this function might look
like.
Alright so there is certainly any number
of functions that have these properties,
but I'm just going to write down for
concreteness two of what I think are of
the simplest functions that have these
properties.
So one is going to be based on taking the
difference of the two numbers and one is
going to be based on taking the ratio of
the two numbers.
So if you're going to use a function
based on the difference, then you're want
to be increasing in the way of decreasing
the length.
Then of course, the obvious difference to
use is weight minus length, this can be
negative sometimes but that doesn't
bother us the algorithm is still well
defined.
And if you're going to use a ratio and
you want it to be increasing in weight,
decreasing in length, then the sensible
ratio to use is, the weight of a job,
divided by the length of a job.
It is of course possible that you have
ties for either one of these scoring
functions, so let's just allow ties to be
broken arbitrarely.
Now, what we're seeing here is a concrete
instantiation of something I promised you
in our high level discussion of greedy
algorithms, namely, it's both a strength
and a weakness of them that they're
really easy to come up with and propose.
So here we have just, you know, this one
simple problem, and we now have two
different, competing greedy algorithms
for the problem.
Now, because these two algorithms don't
do the same thing.
Only one of them, at most, can be always
correct.
At least one of them has to be wrong
sometimes.
So, as the algorithm designer, what the
process now is.
Maybe we can rule out at least one of
these two proposed greedy algorithms, by
showing an example where it doesn't do
the right thing.
So I want to emphasize this is the type
of scenario that's very likely to arise
in your own algorithm designed
adventures.
You might have some problem.
You're not sure how to solve it yet.
You've brainstormed up a couple of
proposed algorithms.
And a good thing to do, a good time saver
is too quickly rule out some of those
algorithms as not the right way to go as
a poor approach to the problem.
So in this context we have these two
greedy algorithms.
Let's quickly break one of them.
Show that's it's not always correct.
How do we do that?
Well, a smart way to go would be to come
up with an input where the two algorithms
do different things.
If they do different things, at most one
of them is going to be correct.
At least one of them is going to be
incorrect so that's the plan.
Now to execute this goal, as usual we
want to keep things as simple as possible
but no simpler.
So, what's the simplest possible instance
that could lead to different behavior by
two algorithms?
Well, obviously one job is not enough
because there's only one possible
feasible solution.
But already with two jobs we might be
able to have one algorithm flip them one
way and the other algorithm schedule them
in the opposite order.
In fact it is not difficult to come up
with an instance with two jobs where they
do different things.
let me just go ahead and write such an
instance down for you now.
So suppose I give you two jobs, the first
one is both longer and more important
than the other one, specifically, its
length is five, its weight is three.
The second job, its length is merely two
but its weight is merely one.
So what I want you to do is I want you to
take our two proposed greedy algorithms,
the first one which orders by difference,
the second one which orders by ratio.
I want you to execute them on this 2-job
input and compute the sum of weighted
completion times.
And then answer what is the sum of
weighted completion times of the
corresponding two schedules.
Alright, so the correct answer, is answer
B.
Let's just briefly go through why.
So first let's just make sure we
understand which algorithm produces which
schedule.
So the first job has the better ratio.
It's ratio is five 3rds, where as the
ratio of the second job is one-half which
is smaller.
Where as the second job has the larger
difference, it has a difference of -1
where as the first job has the more
negative difference of -2/ So, the first
algorithm which orders by difference will
schedule the second job first then the
first job.
The second algorithm will schedule the
first job first and then the second one.
So it just remains to compute the
objective function value of those two
schedules.
So for the first schedule, with the
second job first, while we're, the second
job has waits of one, has a completion
time of two.
The second job has a weight of three and
a completion time of seven.
So that gives us a total of 23.
Whereas the schedule produced by the
second algorithm we have the weight three
job first.
It's completion time, now that it's
first, is only five and then the second
job with weight one get the completion
time of seven for a total of 22.
So ordering by difference gives us a
value of 23.
Ordering by ratio gives a value of 22.
So in this case the ratio does better
than the difference.
So certainly the difference is not
optimal for this specific example.
So what have we accomplished?
Well, what we've done is we very quickly
ruled out one of our natural proposed
greedy algorithms.
We know that ordering by difference is
not always correct.
Again, it's going to be correct in
special cases like when all the lengths
are equal, where all weights are equal
but it is not correct in general.
That said, please remember the warning I
gave you in the high level discussion of
greedy algorithms which is greedy
algorithms are very often wrong.
Just because we know algorithm number one
is incorrect sometimes does not at all
imply that algorithm number two is
guaranteed to be correct.
It's really easy to come up with multiple
incorrect greedy algorithms for the same
problem.
It does, however, turn out.
In this case for this greedy algorithm,
algorithm number two driven by ratio it
is happily always correct.
But you certainly shouldn't believe this
claim until I provide you with a proof.
A rigorous argument explaining the
correctness.
Always maintain healthy skepticism about
the performance of a greedy algorithm
until you learn otherwise.
So, this fulfills another promise I gave
you in the high-level discussion of
greedy algorithms.
Namely, when they're correct it's often
quite difficult to prove it.
So this would be the topic of the next
couple videos the correctness proof for
this greedy heuristic.
The third and final thing we discussed
about greedy algorithms typically is that
their running time is not difficult to
analyze.
So that's a break that we catch relative
to divide and conquer algorithms, and
again that's certainly true here,
right? So, what does this algorithm do?
All it does is compute these ratios and
then sort the jobs by ratio, so
essentially the algorithm reduces to a
single sorting computation and of course
from part one, we know very well, how to
sort in N log N time.